Let's do coverage. We were just talking about 100% test coverage.
I'm going to show you how to measure that with vitest now.
We are going to install one more thing.
npm install capital D at vitest slash coverage dash v8 2.1.3.
Okay.
I showed you how to do this with, I'm going to show you how to do with v8.
I think it's the better library, but if you are bent on using Istanbul,
you can do that as well, and that will get the Istanbul one as well.
If it doesn't make any difference to you, just stick with v8.
Istanbul has been the gold standard for longer than my career.
It's been the test coverage tool forever.
But v8 is the new hotness.
All right. So I want you to go to your Vite config really quick.
And inside of, I think it just says coverage.
So we are going to do coverage here.
Is it inside of test? I can't tell.
Yeah, it's inside of test. My notes didn't say that.
But coverage.
And then we are going to do our reporter.
And I just have in here text. I think I have all of them.
But you can choose just some of them.
JSON and HTML.
And this will generate all of the tests for your coverage tools.
You probably don't need all of them.
We'll look at the HTML one, but the JSON one can be like ingested into your
like dashboards or something like that if you want to do that.
Okay. That's really it, which is kind of cool to set this up.
The only thing we got to go do now is in our package.json.
Instead of our scripts, we're going to create one called coverage.
So I'll just put this down at the bottom.
Coverage. And all you're going to do is vitest dash dash coverage.
And it will handle the rest.
If you've never had to set up coverage by hand in like, I don't know,
like eight years ago, I just want you to know that this used to suck.
A lot.
To instrument everything correctly to run test coverage.
And the fact that vitest just does it for you is just, it's just great.
npm run test colon, or no, I just called it coverage.
npm run coverage, like that.
It's going to run our entire testing suite.
And then we get this really cool report here in our command line of what
files are covered, what files aren't covered.
And this is cool that we get this directly into our code base or our CLI.
But we can actually do something that's even cooler.
I'm going to go to my browser and I'm going to do command open.
And I'm going to be in Padre Gino's here.
You get this coverage directory.
And just open this index.html inside of the coverage directory.
Now we get like a full-on web page that describes all the test coverage.
When I say coverage, I'm just saying like what files are tested and what
files are not and what lines are tested and what lines are not.
So let's look at our source directory.
We can see that pizza.jsx, every line was covered.
You can see some of them got run twice.
Some of them got run once.
Cool.
Let's go look at cart.
You can see that all of these lines were run once.
But you can see it actually never got here.
Why is that?
Well, we gave it an empty cart.
We never gave it a full cart.
So this for loop never gets run.
This cart.map never gets run because it never had anything in the cart.
Or use pizza of the day.
Some of these got run twice.
This got run four times.
That's kind of cool.
And you can see, for example, header never tested.
Same with source.
Like post-contact looks like this got run, but we never hit the error case.
So we don't know if it actually does the correct error.
So you can see here we have 16% of statements under 17%, 45% of branches,
33% of functions.
Obviously, this is not a well-tested code base.
I'm not purporting that it is.
But I'm also going to say that I don't think 100% test coverage is a worthy goal.
I think it's a waste of time most of the time.
You end up writing tests that you don't care about.
And tests that you don't care about are worse than tests that don't exist.
It's pretty cool stuff, though, right?
That this all just gets generated automatically.
I think it's cool.